---
# generated by https://github.com/magodo/terraform-plugin-framework-docs
page_title: "azapi_data_plane_resource Data Source - terraform-provider-azapi"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  This data source can read Azure data plane resources.
---

# azapi_data_plane_resource (Data Source)

This data source can read Azure data plane resources.

## Schema

### Required

- `parent_id` (String) The parent ID or endpoint prefix for the data plane resource being read.

	-> String length must be at least 1.
- `type` (String) In a format like `<resource-type>@<api-version>`. `<resource-type>` is the Azure resource type, for example, `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts`. `<api-version>` is version of the API used to manage this azure resource.

	-> Ensure this in resource type format: `<resource-type>@<api-version>`.

### Optional

- `headers` (Map of String) A map of headers to include in the request.
- `identifiers` (Map of String) A mapping of identifier placeholder values for data plane resource types that require multiple path identifiers, for example composite keys.
- `name` (String) Specifies the name (identifier segment) of the data plane resource when the selected resource type uses a single `name` path segment.
- `query_parameters` (Map of List of String) A map of query parameters to include in the request.
- `response_export_values` (Dynamic) The attribute can accept either a list or a map.

	- **List**: A list of paths that need to be exported from the response body. Setting it to `["*"]` will export the full response body. Here's an example. If it sets to `["properties.loginServer", "properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status"]`, it will set the following HCL object to the computed property output.

		```text
		{
			properties = {
				loginServer = "registry1.azurecr.io"
				policies = {
					quarantinePolicy = {
						status = "disabled"
					}
				}
			}
		}
		```

	- **Map**: A map where the key is the name for the result and the value is a JMESPath query string to filter the response. Here's an example. If it sets to `{"login_server": "properties.loginServer", "quarantine_status": "properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status"}`, it will set the following HCL object to the computed property output.

		```text
		{
			"login_server" = "registry1.azurecr.io"
			"quarantine_status" = "disabled"
		}
		```

	To learn more about JMESPath, visit [JMESPath](https://jmespath.org/).

- `retry` (Object) The retry object supports the following attributes: See [below for nested schema](#nested--retry).
- `timeouts` (Block) See [below for nested schema](#nested--timeouts).

### Read-Only

- `body` (Dynamic) A dynamic attribute that contains the request body.
- `id` (String) The ID of the Azure resource.
- `output` (Dynamic) The output HCL object containing the properties specified in `response_export_values`. Here are some examples to use the values.

	```terraform
	// it will output "registry1.azurecr.io"
	output "login_server" {
		value = data.azapi_data_plane_resource.example.output.properties.loginServer
	}

	// it will output "disabled"
	output "quarantine_policy" {
		value = data.azapi_data_plane_resource.example.output.properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status
	}
	```


<a id="nested--retry"></a>
### Nested Schema for `retry`

Required:

- `error_message_regex` (List of String) A list of regular expressions to match against error messages. If any of the regular expressions match, the request will be retried.

	-> Element value must satisfy all validations: validates that the string compiles as a valid Go regular expression.

	-> All values must be unique.

	-> List must contain at least 1 elements.

Optional:

- `interval_seconds` (Int64) The base number of seconds to wait between retries.

	-> Value must be at least 1.

	-> Value must be at most 120.
- `max_interval_seconds` (Int64) The maximum number of seconds to wait between retries.

	-> Value must be at least 1.

	-> Value must be at most 300.
- `multiplier` (Float64) The multiplier to apply to the interval between retries.

	!> The `multiplier` attribute is deprecated and will be removed in a future version.
- `randomization_factor` (Float64) The randomization factor to apply to the interval between retries. The formula for the randomized interval is: `RetryInterval * (random value in range [1 - RandomizationFactor, 1 + RandomizationFactor])`. Therefore set to zero `0.0` for no randomization.

	!> The `randomization_factor` attribute is deprecated and will be removed in a future version.
<a id="nested--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `read` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).

	-> Must be a string containing a sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as "300ms", "-1.5h" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h".
