---
# generated by https://github.com/magodo/terraform-plugin-framework-docs
page_title: "azapi_resource_action Data Source - terraform-provider-azapi"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  This data source allows you to perform an action on an existing Azure resource. It is useful for performing actions that reads information from an Azure resource, e.g., retrieving access keys from an Azure Storage Account. It should not be used to perform actions that modify the state of an Azure resource, because it will be called multiple times during a Terraform run.
---

# azapi_resource_action (Data Source)

This data source allows you to perform an action on an existing Azure resource. It is useful for performing actions that reads information from an Azure resource, e.g., retrieving access keys from an Azure Storage Account. It should not be used to perform actions that modify the state of an Azure resource, because it will be called multiple times during a Terraform run.

## Example Usage

```terraform
terraform {
  required_providers {
    azapi = {
      source = "Azure/azapi"
    }
  }
}

provider "azapi" {
}

provider "azurerm" {
  features {}
}

resource "azurerm_resource_group" "example" {
  name     = "example-rg"
  location = "west europe"
}

resource "azurerm_automation_account" "example" {
  name                = "example-account"
  resource_group_name = azurerm_resource_group.example.name
  location            = azurerm_resource_group.example.location
  sku_name            = "Basic"
}

data "azapi_resource_action" "example" {
  type                   = "Microsoft.Automation/automationAccounts@2021-06-22"
  resource_id            = azurerm_automation_account.example.id
  action                 = "listKeys"
  response_export_values = ["*"]
}
```

## Schema

### Required

- `type` (String) In a format like `<resource-type>@<api-version>`. `<resource-type>` is the Azure resource type, for example, `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts`. `<api-version>` is version of the API used to manage this azure resource.

	-> Ensure this in resource type format: `<resource-type>@<api-version>`.

### Optional

- `action` (String) The name of the resource action. It's also possible to make HTTP requests towards the resource ID if leave this field empty.
- `body` (Dynamic) The body attribute is a dynamic attribute that only allows users to specify the resource body as an HCL object.

	-> Ensure the dynamic value is not a string.
- `headers` (Map of Strings) A map of headers to include in the request
- `method` (String) The HTTP method to use when performing the action. Defaults to `POST`.

	-> Value must be one of: ["POST" "GET"].
- `query_parameters` (Map of Lists of Strings) A map of query parameters to include in the request
- `resource_id` (String) The ID of the Azure resource to perform the action on.

	-> Ensure this in resource ID format.
- `response_export_values` (Dynamic) The attribute can accept either a list or a map.

- **List**: A list of paths that need to be exported from the response body. Setting it to `["*"]` will export the full response body. Here's an example. If it sets to `["properties.loginServer", "properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status"]`, it will set the following HCL object to the computed property output.

	```text
	{
		properties = {
			loginServer = "registry1.azurecr.io"
			policies = {
				quarantinePolicy = {
					status = "disabled"
				}
			}
		}
	}
	```

- **Map**: A map where the key is the name for the result and the value is a JMESPath query string to filter the response. Here's an example. If it sets to `{"login_server": "properties.loginServer", "quarantine_status": "properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status"}`, it will set the following HCL object to the computed property output.

	```text
	{
		"login_server" = "registry1.azurecr.io"
		"quarantine_status" = "disabled"
	}
	```

To learn more about JMESPath, visit [JMESPath](https://jmespath.org/).

- `retry` (Object) The retry object supports the following attributes: See [below for nested schema](#nested--retry).
- `sensitive_response_export_values` (Dynamic) The attribute can accept either a list or a map.

- **List**: A list of paths that need to be exported from the response body. Setting it to `["*"]` will export the full response body. Here's an example. If it sets to `["properties.loginServer", "properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status"]`, it will set the following HCL object to the computed property sensitive_output.

	```text
	{
		properties = {
			loginServer = "registry1.azurecr.io"
			policies = {
				quarantinePolicy = {
					status = "disabled"
				}
			}
		}
	}
	```

- **Map**: A map where the key is the name for the result and the value is a JMESPath query string to filter the response. Here's an example. If it sets to `{"login_server": "properties.loginServer", "quarantine_status": "properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status"}`, it will set the following HCL object to the computed property sensitive_output.

	```text
	{
		"login_server" = "registry1.azurecr.io"
		"quarantine_status" = "disabled"
	}
	```

To learn more about JMESPath, visit [JMESPath](https://jmespath.org/).

- `timeouts` (Block) See [below for nested schema](#nested--timeouts).

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of the Azure resource.
- `output` (Dynamic) The output HCL object containing the properties specified in `response_export_values`. Here are some examples to use the values.

	```terraform
	// it will output "registry1.azurecr.io"
	output "login_server" {
		value = data.azapi_resource_action.example.output.properties.loginServer
	}

	// it will output "disabled"
	output "quarantine_policy" {
		value = data.azapi_resource_action.example.output.properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status
	}
	```

- `sensitive_output` (Dynamic, Sensitive) The output HCL object containing the properties specified in `sensitive_response_export_values`. Here are some examples to use the values.

	```terraform
	// it will output "registry1.azurecr.io"
	output "login_server" {
		value     = data.azapi_resource_action.example.sensitive_output.properties.loginServer
        sensitive = true
	}

	// it will output "disabled"
	output "quarantine_policy" {
		value     = data.azapi_resource_action.example.sensitive_output.properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status
        sensitive = true
	}
	```


<a id="nested--retry"></a>
### Nested Schema for `retry`

Required:

- `error_message_regex` (List of Strings) A list of regular expressions to match against error messages. If any of the regular expressions match, the request will be retried.

	-> Element value must satisfy all validations: validates that the string compiles as a valid Go regular expression.

	-> All values must be unique.

	-> List must contain at least 1 elements.

Optional:

- `interval_seconds` (Int64) The base number of seconds to wait between retries.

	-> Value must be at least 1.

	-> Value must be at most 120.
- `max_interval_seconds` (Int64) The maximum number of seconds to wait between retries.

	-> Value must be at least 1.

	-> Value must be at most 300.
- `multiplier` (Float64) The multiplier to apply to the interval between retries.

	!> The `multiplier` attribute is deprecated and will be removed in a future version.
- `randomization_factor` (Float64) The randomization factor to apply to the interval between retries. The formula for the randomized interval is: `RetryInterval * (random value in range [1 - RandomizationFactor, 1 + RandomizationFactor])`. Therefore set to zero `0.0` for no randomization.

	!> The `randomization_factor` attribute is deprecated and will be removed in a future version.
<a id="nested--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `read` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).

	-> Must be a string containing a sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as "300ms", "-1.5h" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h".
