---
# generated by https://github.com/magodo/terraform-plugin-framework-docs
page_title: "azapi_resource Data Source - terraform-provider-azapi"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  This resource can access any existing Azure resource manager resource.
---

# azapi_resource (Data Source)

This resource can access any existing Azure resource manager resource.

## Example Usage

```terraform
terraform {
  required_providers {
    azapi = {
      source = "Azure/azapi"
    }
  }
}

provider "azapi" {
}

provider "azurerm" {
  features {}
}

resource "azurerm_resource_group" "example" {
  name     = "example-rg"
  location = "west europe"
}

resource "azurerm_container_registry" "example" {
  name                = "example"
  resource_group_name = azurerm_resource_group.example.name
  location            = azurerm_resource_group.example.location
  sku                 = "Premium"
  admin_enabled       = false
}

data "azapi_resource" "example" {
  name      = "example"
  parent_id = azurerm_resource_group.example.id
  type      = "Microsoft.ContainerRegistry/registries@2020-11-01-preview"

  response_export_values = ["properties.loginServer", "properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status"]
}

// it will output "registry1.azurecr.io"
output "login_server" {
  value = data.azapi_resource.example.output.properties.loginServer
}

// it will output "disabled"
output "quarantine_policy" {
  value = data.azapi_resource.example.output.properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status
}
```

## Schema

### Required

- `type` (String) In a format like `<resource-type>@<api-version>`. `<resource-type>` is the Azure resource type, for example, `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts`. `<api-version>` is version of the API used to manage this azure resource.

	-> Ensure this in resource type format: `<resource-type>@<api-version>`.

### Optional

- `headers` (Map of String) A map of headers to include in the request
- `ignore_not_found` (Boolean) If set to `true`, the data source will not fail when the specified resource is not found (HTTP 404). Identifier attributes (`id`, `name`, `parent_id`, `resource_id`) will still be populated based on inputs; other computed attributes (`output`, `location`, `identity`, `tags`) will be null/empty. Defaults to `false`.
- `name` (String) Specifies the name of the Azure resource. Exactly one of the arguments `name` or `resource_id` must be set. It could be omitted if the `type` is `Microsoft.Resources/subscriptions`.

	-> String length must be at least 1.
- `parent_id` (String) The ID of the azure resource in which this resource is created. It supports different kinds of deployment scope for **top level** resources:

  - resource group scope: `parent_id` should be the ID of a resource group, it's recommended to manage a resource group by azurerm_resource_group.
	- management group scope: `parent_id` should be the ID of a management group, it's recommended to manage a management group by azurerm_management_group.
	- extension scope: `parent_id` should be the ID of the resource you're adding the extension to.
	- subscription scope: `parent_id` should be like \x60/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000\x60
	- tenant scope: `parent_id` should be /

  For child level resources, the `parent_id` should be the ID of its parent resource, for example, subnet resource's `parent_id` is the ID of the vnet.

  For type `Microsoft.Resources/resourceGroups`, the `parent_id` could be omitted, it defaults to subscription ID specified in provider or the default subscription (You could check the default subscription by azure cli command: `az account show`).

	-> Ensure this in resource ID format.
- `query_parameters` (Map of List of String) A map of query parameters to include in the request
- `resource_id` (String) The ID of the Azure resource to retrieve. Exactly one of the arguments `name` or `resource_id` must be set. It could be omitted if the `type` is `Microsoft.Resources/subscriptions`.

	-> Ensure this in resource ID format.
- `response_export_values` (Dynamic) The attribute can accept either a list or a map.

- **List**: A list of paths that need to be exported from the response body. Setting it to `["*"]` will export the full response body. Here's an example. If it sets to `["properties.loginServer", "properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status"]`, it will set the following HCL object to the computed property output.

	```text
	{
		properties = {
			loginServer = "registry1.azurecr.io"
			policies = {
				quarantinePolicy = {
					status = "disabled"
				}
			}
		}
	}
	```

- **Map**: A map where the key is the name for the result and the value is a JMESPath query string to filter the response. Here's an example. If it sets to `{"login_server": "properties.loginServer", "quarantine_status": "properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status"}`, it will set the following HCL object to the computed property output.

	```text
	{
		"login_server" = "registry1.azurecr.io"
		"quarantine_status" = "disabled"
	}
	```

To learn more about JMESPath, visit [JMESPath](https://jmespath.org/).

- `retry` (Object) The retry object supports the following attributes: See [below for nested schema](#nested--retry).
- `timeouts` (Block) See [below for nested schema](#nested--timeouts).

### Read-Only

- `exists` (Boolean) Indicates whether the specified Azure resource exists. This will be `false` only when `ignore_not_found` is `true` and the resource isn't found.
- `id` (String) The ID of the Azure resource.
- `identity` (List of Object) The identity of this resource. See [below for nested schema](#nested--identity).
- `location` (String) The location of the Azure resource.
- `output` (Dynamic) The output HCL object containing the properties specified in `response_export_values`. Here are some examples to use the values.

	```terraform
	// it will output "registry1.azurecr.io"
	output "login_server" {
		value = data.azapi_resource.example.output.properties.loginServer
	}

	// it will output "disabled"
	output "quarantine_policy" {
		value = data.azapi_resource.example.output.properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status
	}
	```

- `tags` (Map of String) A mapping of tags which are assigned to the Azure resource.

<a id="nested--identity"></a>
### Nested Schema for `identity`

Read-Only:

- `identity_ids` (List of String) A list of User Managed Identity ID's which should be assigned to the azure resource.
- `principal_id` (String) The Principal ID for the Service Principal associated with the Managed Service Identity of this Azure resource.
- `tenant_id` (String) The Tenant ID for the Service Principal associated with the Managed Service Identity of this Azure resource.
- `type` (String) The Type of Identity which should be used for this azure resource.
<a id="nested--retry"></a>
### Nested Schema for `retry`

Required:

- `error_message_regex` (List of String) A list of regular expressions to match against error messages. If any of the regular expressions match, the request will be retried.

	-> Element value must satisfy all validations: validates that the string compiles as a valid Go regular expression.

	-> All values must be unique.

	-> List must contain at least 1 elements.

Optional:

- `interval_seconds` (Int64) The base number of seconds to wait between retries.

	-> Value must be at least 1.

	-> Value must be at most 120.
- `max_interval_seconds` (Int64) The maximum number of seconds to wait between retries.

	-> Value must be at least 1.

	-> Value must be at most 300.
- `multiplier` (Float64) The multiplier to apply to the interval between retries.

	!> The `multiplier` attribute is deprecated and will be removed in a future version.
- `randomization_factor` (Float64) The randomization factor to apply to the interval between retries. The formula for the randomized interval is: `RetryInterval * (random value in range [1 - RandomizationFactor, 1 + RandomizationFactor])`. Therefore set to zero `0.0` for no randomization.

	!> The `randomization_factor` attribute is deprecated and will be removed in a future version.
<a id="nested--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `read` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).

	-> Must be a string containing a sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as "300ms", "-1.5h" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h".
