---
# generated by https://github.com/magodo/terraform-plugin-framework-docs
page_title: "azapi_resource_list Data Source - terraform-provider-azapi"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  This data source allows you to list resources of a specific type under a given scope (e.g., subscription, resource group).
---

# azapi_resource_list (Data Source)

This data source allows you to list resources of a specific type under a given scope (e.g., subscription, resource group).

## Example Usage

```terraform
terraform {
  required_providers {
    azapi = {
      source = "Azure/azapi"
    }
  }
}

provider "azapi" {
}

data "azapi_resource_list" "listBySubscription" {
  type      = "Microsoft.Automation/automationAccounts@2021-06-22"
  parent_id = "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
  response_export_values = {
    "values" = "value[].{name: name, publicNetworkAccess: properties.publicNetworkAccess}"
    "names"  = "value[].name"
  }
}

data "azapi_resource_list" "listByResourceGroup" {
  type      = "Microsoft.Automation/automationAccounts@2021-06-22"
  parent_id = "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/rg1"
  response_export_values = {
    "names" = "value[].name"
  }
}

data "azapi_resource_list" "listSubnetsByVnet" {
  type                   = "Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/subnets@2021-02-01"
  parent_id              = "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/rg1/providers/Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/vnet1"
  response_export_values = ["*"]
}
```

## Schema

### Required

- `parent_id` (String) The ID of the azure resource in which this resource is created. It supports different kinds of deployment scope for **top level** resources:

  - resource group scope: `parent_id` should be the ID of a resource group, it's recommended to manage a resource group by azurerm_resource_group.
	- management group scope: `parent_id` should be the ID of a management group, it's recommended to manage a management group by azurerm_management_group.
	- extension scope: `parent_id` should be the ID of the resource you're adding the extension to.
	- subscription scope: `parent_id` should be like \x60/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000\x60
	- tenant scope: `parent_id` should be /

  For child level resources, the `parent_id` should be the ID of its parent resource, for example, subnet resource's `parent_id` is the ID of the vnet.

  For type `Microsoft.Resources/resourceGroups`, the `parent_id` could be omitted, it defaults to subscription ID specified in provider or the default subscription (You could check the default subscription by azure cli command: `az account show`).

	-> Ensure this in resource ID format.
- `type` (String) In a format like `<resource-type>@<api-version>`. `<resource-type>` is the Azure resource type, for example, `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts`. `<api-version>` is version of the API used to manage this azure resource.

	-> Ensure this in resource type format: `<resource-type>@<api-version>`.

### Optional

- `headers` (Map of String) A map of headers to include in the request
- `query_parameters` (Map of List of String) A map of query parameters to include in the request
- `response_export_values` (Dynamic) The attribute can accept either a list or a map.

- **List**: A list of paths that need to be exported from the response body. Setting it to `["*"]` will export the full response body. Here's an example. If it sets to `["value"]`, it will set the following HCL object to the computed property output.

	```text
	{
	  "value" = [
		{
		  "id" = "/subscriptions/000000/resourceGroups/demo-rg/providers/Microsoft.Automation/automationAccounts/example"
		  "location" = "eastus2"
		  "name" = "example"
		  "properties" = {
			"creationTime" = "2024-10-11T08:18:38.737+00:00"
			"disableLocalAuth" = false
			"lastModifiedTime" = "2024-10-11T08:18:38.737+00:00"
			"publicNetworkAccess" = true
		  }
		  "tags" = {}
		  "type" = "Microsoft.Automation/AutomationAccounts"
		}
	  ]
	}
	```

- **Map**: A map where the key is the name for the result and the value is a JMESPath query string to filter the response. Here's an example. If it sets to `{"values": "value[].{name: name, publicNetworkAccess: properties.publicNetworkAccess}", "names": "value[].name"}`, it will set the following HCL object to the computed property output.

	```text
	{
		"names" = [
			"example",
			"fredaccount01",
		]
		"values" = [
			{
			  "name" = "example"
			  "publicNetworkAccess" = true
			},
			{
			  "name" = "fredaccount01"
			  "publicNetworkAccess" = null
			},
		]
	}
	```

To learn more about JMESPath, visit [JMESPath](https://jmespath.org/).

- `retry` (Object) The retry object supports the following attributes: See [below for nested schema](#nested--retry).
- `timeouts` (Block) See [below for nested schema](#nested--timeouts).

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of the Azure resource.
- `output` (Dynamic) The output HCL object containing the properties specified in `response_export_values`. Here are some examples to use the values.

	```terraform
	// it will output "registry1.azurecr.io"
	output "login_server" {
		value = data.azapi_resource_list.example.output.properties.loginServer
	}

	// it will output "disabled"
	output "quarantine_policy" {
		value = data.azapi_resource_list.example.output.properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status
	}
	```


<a id="nested--retry"></a>
### Nested Schema for `retry`

Required:

- `error_message_regex` (List of String) A list of regular expressions to match against error messages. If any of the regular expressions match, the request will be retried.

	-> Element value must satisfy all validations: validates that the string compiles as a valid Go regular expression.

	-> All values must be unique.

	-> List must contain at least 1 elements.

Optional:

- `interval_seconds` (Int64) The base number of seconds to wait between retries.

	-> Value must be at least 1.

	-> Value must be at most 120.
- `max_interval_seconds` (Int64) The maximum number of seconds to wait between retries.

	-> Value must be at least 1.

	-> Value must be at most 300.
- `multiplier` (Float64) The multiplier to apply to the interval between retries.

	!> The `multiplier` attribute is deprecated and will be removed in a future version.
- `randomization_factor` (Float64) The randomization factor to apply to the interval between retries. The formula for the randomized interval is: `RetryInterval * (random value in range [1 - RandomizationFactor, 1 + RandomizationFactor])`. Therefore set to zero `0.0` for no randomization.

	!> The `randomization_factor` attribute is deprecated and will be removed in a future version.
<a id="nested--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `read` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).

	-> Must be a string containing a sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as "300ms", "-1.5h" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h".
