---
layout: "azapi"
page_title: "AzAPI Provider: 3.0 Upgrade Guide"
description: |-
  This guide will cover how to upgrade from version 2.x to version 3.0 of the AzAPI Provider.

---

# AzAPI Provider

## AzAPI Provider Version v3.0

~> **Note:** Version 3.0 of the AzAPI Provider is **not yet released**. This guide describes the changes that are planned for the 3.0 release and is published in advance so that you can prepare your configurations ahead of time. The details below are subject to change before the final release.

### Considerations

Version 3.0 of the AzAPI Provider is a major release and includes breaking changes which are outlined in this document.

When upgrading to version 3.0 of the AzAPI Provider, we recommend upgrading to the latest version of Terraform Core ([which can be found here](https://www.terraform.io/downloads)).

This guide will continue to receive updates as we incorporate feedback and continue to fix any issues prior to the release.

### Pinning your Provider Version

We recommend pinning the version of each Provider you use in Terraform - you can do this using the `version` attribute within the `required_providers` block:

```hcl
terraform {
  required_providers {
    azapi = {
      source  = "azure/azapi"
      version = "~> 3.0"
    }
  }
}

provider "azapi" {
}
```

More information on [how to pin the version of a Terraform Provider being used can be found on the Terraform Website](https://www.terraform.io/language/providers/requirements#requiring-providers).

---

## What's changing in Version 3.0 of the AzAPI Provider?

Below is an overview of the changes coming in 3.0. Each topic is covered in more detail further down.

* [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes)
  * [Mandatory API Version on Import](#mandatory-api-version-on-import)

## Breaking Changes

### Mandatory API Version on Import

In versions 2.x and earlier, the `api-version` was optional when importing an existing resource into Terraform state. While processing an import request the provider cannot determine the target api-version from the resource ID alone, so when it was omitted the provider would enumerate the [indexed api versions](https://github.com/Azure/terraform-provider-azapi/blob/main/internal/azure/generated/index.json) and fall back to the latest one (regardless of whether it was a preview or stable version). This could cause an api-version mismatch between the imported resource and the one defined in your configuration.

Starting in version 3.0, specifying the api-version is **mandatory** when importing a resource:

- When importing by **ID**, the resource ID must include the `api-version` query parameter.
- When importing by **identity**, the resource `type` (which contains the api-version) must be provided.

In 2.x, omitting the api-version produces a warning. In 3.0, the same situation produces an error and the import fails.

#### How to fix

Provide the `api-version` query parameter (when importing by ID) or the resource `type` (when importing by identity).

When importing by ID using the [`terraform import` command](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/commands/import), append the `api-version` query parameter to the resource ID:

```shell
$ terraform import azapi_resource.example "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/example-rg/providers/Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/example-vnet?api-version=2023-11-01"
```

When importing by ID using the [`import` block](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/block/import) (Terraform v1.5.0 and later), include the `api-version` query parameter in the `id` attribute:

```terraform
import {
  to = azapi_resource.example
  id = "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/example-rg/providers/Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/example-vnet?api-version=2023-11-01"
}
```

When importing by identity (Terraform v1.12.0 and later), provide the resource `type`, which includes the api-version:

```terraform
import {
  to = azapi_resource.example
  identity = {
    id   = "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/example-rg/providers/Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/example-vnet"
    type = "Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks@2023-11-01"
  }
}
```

#### Reverting to the 2.x behaviour

If you are not ready to adopt the mandatory api-version requirement, you can opt out and revert to the 2.x behaviour by setting the `disable_mandatory_import_api_version` attribute to `true` in the provider block:

```hcl
provider "azapi" {
  disable_mandatory_import_api_version = true
}
```

This can also be sourced from the `ARM_DISABLE_MANDATORY_IMPORT_API_VERSION` environment variable. When set, omitting the api-version on import produces a warning instead of an error, and the provider falls back to the latest indexed api-version (which may cause an api-version mismatch).
