---
layout: "azapi"
page_title: "Provider: Azure API"
description: |-
  The AzAPI Provider is used to interact with the many resources supported by Azure Resource Manager through its APIs.
---

# AzAPI Provider

The AzAPI provider is a very thin layer on top of the Azure ARM REST APIs. This provider compliments the [AzureRM provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs) by enabling the management of Azure resources that are not yet or may never be supported in the AzureRM provider such as private/public preview services and features.

Documentation regarding the [Data Sources](/docs/configuration/data-sources.html) and [Resources](/docs/configuration/resources.html) supported by the AzAPI Provider can be found in the navigation to the left.

Interested in the provider's latest features, or want to make sure you're up to date? Check out the [changelog](https://github.com/Azure/terraform-provider-azapi/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) for version information and release notes.

Strongly recommended to install [AzApi VSCode Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=azapi-vscode.azapi), it provides a rich authoring experience to help you use the AzApi provider.

Also, there is a rich library of [examples](https://github.com/Azure/terraform-provider-azapi/tree/main/examples) to help you get started.

## Authenticating to Azure

Terraform supports a number of different methods for authenticating to Azure:

* [Authenticating to Azure using the Azure CLI](guides/azure_cli.html)
* [Authenticating to Azure using Managed Service Identity](guides/managed_service_identity.html)
* [Authenticating to Azure using a Service Principal and a Client Certificate](guides/service_principal_client_certificate.html)
* [Authenticating to Azure using a Service Principal and a Client Secret](guides/service_principal_client_secret.html)
* [Authenticating to Azure using OpenID Connect](guides/service_principal_oidc.html)

---

We recommend using either a Service Principal or Managed Service Identity when running Terraform non-interactively (such as when running Terraform in a CI server) - and authenticating using the Azure CLI when running Terraform locally.

## Example Usage

```hcl
# We strongly recommend using the required_providers block to set the
# Azure Provider source and version being used
terraform {
  required_providers {
    azapi = {
      source = "azure/azapi"
    }
  }
}

provider "azapi" {
}

```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `auxiliary_tenant_ids` (List of String) List of auxiliary Tenant IDs required for multi-tenancy and cross-tenant scenarios. This can also be sourced from the `ARM_AUXILIARY_TENANT_IDS` Environment Variable.
- `client_certificate` (String) A base64-encoded PKCS#12 bundle to be used as the client certificate for authentication. This can also be sourced from the `ARM_CLIENT_CERTIFICATE` environment variable.
- `client_certificate_password` (String) The password associated with the Client Certificate. This can also be sourced from the `ARM_CLIENT_CERTIFICATE_PASSWORD` Environment Variable.
- `client_certificate_path` (String) The path to the Client Certificate associated with the Service Principal which should be used. This can also be sourced from the `ARM_CLIENT_CERTIFICATE_PATH` Environment Variable.
- `client_id` (String) The Client ID which should be used. This can also be sourced from the `ARM_CLIENT_ID` Environment Variable.
- `client_id_file_path` (String) The path to a file containing the Client ID which should be used. This can also be sourced from the `ARM_CLIENT_ID_FILE_PATH` Environment Variable.
- `client_secret` (String) The Client Secret which should be used. This can also be sourced from the `ARM_CLIENT_SECRET` Environment Variable.
- `client_secret_file_path` (String) The path to a file containing the Client Secret which should be used. For use When authenticating as a Service Principal using a Client Secret. This can also be sourced from the `ARM_CLIENT_SECRET_FILE_PATH` Environment Variable.
- `custom_correlation_request_id` (String) The value of the `x-ms-correlation-request-id` header, otherwise an auto-generated UUID will be used. This can also be sourced from the `ARM_CORRELATION_REQUEST_ID` environment variable.
- `default_location` (String) The default Azure Region where the azure resource should exist. The `location` in each resource block can override the `default_location`. Changing this forces new resources to be created.
- `default_name` (String) The default name to create the azure resource. The `name` in each resource block can override the `default_name`. Changing this forces new resources to be created.
- `default_tags` (Map of String) A mapping of tags which should be assigned to the azure resource as default tags. The`tags` in each resource block can override the `default_tags`.
- `disable_correlation_request_id` (Boolean) This will disable the x-ms-correlation-request-id header.
- `disable_terraform_partner_id` (Boolean) Disable sending the Terraform Partner ID if a custom `partner_id` isn't specified, which allows Microsoft to better understand the usage of Terraform. The Partner ID does not give HashiCorp any direct access to usage information. This can also be sourced from the `ARM_DISABLE_TERRAFORM_PARTNER_ID` environment variable. Defaults to `false`.
- `endpoint` (Attributes List) The Azure API Endpoint Configuration. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--endpoint))
- `environment` (String) The Cloud Environment which should be used. Possible values are `public`, `usgovernment` and `china`. Defaults to `public`. This can also be sourced from the `ARM_ENVIRONMENT` Environment Variable.
- `oidc_azure_service_connection_id` (String) The Azure Pipelines Service Connection ID to use for authentication. This can also be sourced from the `ARM_OIDC_AZURE_SERVICE_CONNECTION_ID` environment variable.
- `oidc_request_token` (String) The bearer token for the request to the OIDC provider. This can also be sourced from the `ARM_OIDC_REQUEST_TOKEN` or `ACTIONS_ID_TOKEN_REQUEST_TOKEN` Environment Variables.
- `oidc_request_url` (String) The URL for the OIDC provider from which to request an ID token. This can also be sourced from the `ARM_OIDC_REQUEST_URL` or `ACTIONS_ID_TOKEN_REQUEST_URL` Environment Variables.
- `oidc_token` (String) The ID token when authenticating using OpenID Connect (OIDC). This can also be sourced from the `ARM_OIDC_TOKEN` environment Variable.
- `oidc_token_file_path` (String) The path to a file containing an ID token when authenticating using OpenID Connect (OIDC). This can also be sourced from the `ARM_OIDC_TOKEN_FILE_PATH` environment Variable.
- `partner_id` (String) A GUID/UUID that is [registered](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/marketplace/azure-partner-customer-usage-attribution#register-guids-and-offers) with Microsoft to facilitate partner resource usage attribution. This can also be sourced from the `ARM_PARTNER_ID` Environment Variable.
- `skip_provider_registration` (Boolean) Should the Provider skip registering the Resource Providers it supports? This can also be sourced from the `ARM_SKIP_PROVIDER_REGISTRATION` Environment Variable. Defaults to `false`.
- `subscription_id` (String) The Subscription ID which should be used. This can also be sourced from the `ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID` Environment Variable.
- `tenant_id` (String) The Tenant ID should be used. This can also be sourced from the `ARM_TENANT_ID` Environment Variable.
- `use_aks_workload_identity` (Boolean) Should AKS Workload Identity be used for Authentication? This can also be sourced from the `ARM_USE_AKS_WORKLOAD_IDENTITY` Environment Variable. Defaults to `false`. When set, `client_id`, `tenant_id` and `oidc_token_file_path` will be detected from the environment and do not need to be specified.
- `use_cli` (Boolean) Should Azure CLI be used for authentication? This can also be sourced from the `ARM_USE_CLI` environment variable. Defaults to `true`.
- `use_msi` (Boolean) Should Managed Identity be used for Authentication? This can also be sourced from the `ARM_USE_MSI` Environment Variable. Defaults to `false`.
- `use_oidc` (Boolean) Should OIDC be used for Authentication? This can also be sourced from the `ARM_USE_OIDC` Environment Variable. Defaults to `false`.

<a id="nestedatt--endpoint"></a>
### Nested Schema for `endpoint`

Optional:

- `active_directory_authority_host` (String) The Azure Resource Manager endpoint to use. This can also be sourced from the `ARM_RESOURCE_MANAGER_ENDPOINT` Environment Variable. Defaults to `https://management.azure.com/` for public cloud.
- `resource_manager_audience` (String) The Azure Active Directory login endpoint to use. This can also be sourced from the `ARM_ACTIVE_DIRECTORY_AUTHORITY_HOST` Environment Variable. Defaults to `https://login.microsoftonline.com/` for public cloud.
- `resource_manager_endpoint` (String) The resource ID to obtain AD tokens for. This can also be sourced from the `ARM_RESOURCE_MANAGER_AUDIENCE` Environment Variable. Defaults to `https://management.core.windows.net/` for public cloud.
