---
# generated by https://github.com/magodo/terraform-plugin-framework-docs
page_title: "azapi_resource_action Resource - terraform-provider-azapi"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  This resource allows you to perform an action on an existing Azure resource. It is useful for performing actions that modify the state of an Azure resource without managing its lifecycle in Terraform, e.g., starting or stopping an Azure Virtual Machine. Please note that when deleting this resource, no action will be performed on the Azure resource unless the `when` argument is set to `destroy`.
---

# azapi_resource_action (Resource)

This resource allows you to perform an action on an existing Azure resource. It is useful for performing actions that modify the state of an Azure resource without managing its lifecycle in Terraform, e.g., starting or stopping an Azure Virtual Machine. Please note that when deleting this resource, no action will be performed on the Azure resource unless the `when` argument is set to `destroy`.

## Example Usage

```terraform
terraform {
  required_providers {
    azapi = {
      source = "Azure/azapi"
    }
  }
}

provider "azapi" {
}

provider "azurerm" {
  features {}
}

variable "enabled" {
  type        = bool
  default     = false
  description = "whether start the spring service"
}

resource "azurerm_resource_group" "example" {
  name     = "example-rg"
  location = "west europe"
}

resource "azurerm_spring_cloud_service" "test" {
  name                = "example-spring"
  resource_group_name = azurerm_resource_group.test.name
  location            = azurerm_resource_group.test.location
  sku_name            = "S0"
}

resource "azapi_resource_action" "start" {
  type                   = "Microsoft.AppPlatform/Spring@2022-05-01-preview"
  resource_id            = azurerm_spring_cloud_service.test.id
  action                 = "start"
  response_export_values = ["*"]

  count = var.enabled ? 1 : 0
}

resource "azapi_resource_action" "stop" {
  type                   = "Microsoft.AppPlatform/Spring@2022-05-01-preview"
  resource_id            = azurerm_spring_cloud_service.test.id
  action                 = "stop"
  response_export_values = ["*"]

  count = var.enabled ? 0 : 1
}
```

## Schema

### Required

- `resource_id` (String) The ID of an existing Azure source.

	~> If the value of this attribute changes, Terraform will destroy and recreate the resource.

	-> Ensure this in resource ID format.
- `type` (String) In a format like `<resource-type>@<api-version>`. `<resource-type>` is the Azure resource type, for example, `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts`. `<api-version>` is version of the API used to manage this azure resource.

	~> Resource type changed.

	-> Ensure this in resource type format: `<resource-type>@<api-version>`.

### Optional

- `action` (String) The name of the resource action. It's also possible to make HTTP requests towards the resource ID if leave this field empty.

	~> If the value of this attribute changes, Terraform will destroy and recreate the resource.
- `body` (Dynamic) A dynamic attribute that contains the request body.

	~> Use the state value when new value is functionally equivalent to the old and thus no change is required.

	-> Ensure the dynamic value is not a string.
- `headers` (Map of String) A map of headers to include in the request.
- `ignore_not_found` (Boolean) If set to `true`, the resource action will ignore `Not Found` errors returned from the Azure API. Default is `false`.
- `locks` (List of String) A list of ARM resource IDs which are used to avoid create/modify/delete azapi resources at the same time.

	-> Element value must satisfy all validations: string length must be at least 1.
- `method` (String) Specifies the HTTP method of the azure resource action. Defaults to `POST`.

	-> Value must be one of: ["POST" "PATCH" "PUT" "DELETE" "GET" "HEAD"].
- `query_parameters` (Map of List of String) A map of query parameters to include in the request.
- `response_export_values` (Dynamic) The attribute can accept either a list or a map.

	- **List**: A list of paths that need to be exported from the response body. Setting it to `["*"]` will export the full response body. Here's an example. If it sets to `["properties.loginServer", "properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status"]`, it will set the following HCL object to the computed property output.

		```text
		{
			properties = {
				loginServer = "registry1.azurecr.io"
				policies = {
					quarantinePolicy = {
						status = "disabled"
					}
				}
			}
		}
		```

	- **Map**: A map where the key is the name for the result and the value is a JMESPath query string to filter the response. Here's an example. If it sets to `{"login_server": "properties.loginServer", "quarantine_status": "properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status"}`, it will set the following HCL object to the computed property output.

		```text
		{
			"login_server" = "registry1.azurecr.io"
			"quarantine_status" = "disabled"
		}
		```

	To learn more about JMESPath, visit [JMESPath](https://jmespath.org/).


	~> Use the state value when new value is functionally equivalent to the old and thus no change is required.
- `retry` (Object) The retry object supports the following attributes: See [below for nested schema](#nested--retry).
- `sensitive_response_export_values` (Dynamic) The attribute can accept either a list or a map.

	- **List**: A list of paths that need to be exported from the response body. Setting it to `["*"]` will export the full response body. Here's an example. If it sets to `["properties.loginServer", "properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status"]`, it will set the following HCL object to the computed property output.

		```text
		{
			properties = {
				loginServer = "registry1.azurecr.io"
				policies = {
					quarantinePolicy = {
						status = "disabled"
					}
				}
			}
		}
		```

	- **Map**: A map where the key is the name for the result and the value is a JMESPath query string to filter the response. Here's an example. If it sets to `{"login_server": "properties.loginServer", "quarantine_status": "properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status"}`, it will set the following HCL object to the computed property output.

		```text
		{
			"login_server" = "registry1.azurecr.io"
			"quarantine_status" = "disabled"
		}
		```

	To learn more about JMESPath, visit [JMESPath](https://jmespath.org/).


	~> Use the state value when new value is functionally equivalent to the old and thus no change is required.
- `timeouts` (Block) See [below for nested schema](#nested--timeouts).
- `when` (String) When to perform the action. Defaults to `apply`.

	-> Value must be one of: ["apply" "destroy"].

### Read-Only

- `exist` (Boolean) Indicates whether the resource action was successfully performed.

	~> Once set, the value of this attribute in state will not change.
- `id` (String) The ID of the Azure resource.

	~> Once set, the value of this attribute in state will not change.
- `output` (Dynamic) The output HCL object containing the properties specified in `response_export_values`. Here are some examples to use the values.

	```terraform
	// it will output "registry1.azurecr.io"
	output "login_server" {
		value = azapi_resource_action.example.output.properties.loginServer
	}

	// it will output "disabled"
	output "quarantine_policy" {
		value = azapi_resource_action.example.output.properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status
	}
	```

- `sensitive_output` (Dynamic, Sensitive) The output HCL object containing the properties specified in `sensitive_response_export_values`. Here are some examples to use the values.

	```terraform
	// it will output "registry1.azurecr.io"
	output "login_server" {
		value     = azapi_resource_action.example.sensitive_output.properties.loginServer
        sensitive = true
	}

	// it will output "disabled"
	output "quarantine_policy" {
		value     = azapi_resource_action.example.sensitive_output.properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status
        sensitive = true
	}
	```


<a id="nested--retry"></a>
### Nested Schema for `retry`

Required:

- `error_message_regex` (List of String) A list of regular expressions to match against error messages. If any of the regular expressions match, the request will be retried.

	-> Element value must satisfy all validations: validates that the string compiles as a valid Go regular expression.

	-> All values must be unique.

	-> List must contain at least 1 elements.

Optional:

- `interval_seconds` (Int64) The base number of seconds to wait between retries. Value defaults to `10`.

	-> Value must be at least 1.

	-> Value must be at most 120.
- `max_interval_seconds` (Int64) The maximum number of seconds to wait between retries. Value defaults to `180`.

	-> Value must be at least 1.

	-> Value must be at most 300.
- `multiplier` (Float64) The multiplier to apply to the interval between retries. Value defaults to `1.500000`.

	!> The `multiplier` attribute is deprecated and will be removed in a future version.
- `randomization_factor` (Float64) The randomization factor to apply to the interval between retries. The formula for the randomized interval is: `RetryInterval * (random value in range [1 - RandomizationFactor, 1 + RandomizationFactor])`. Therefore set to zero `0.0` for no randomization. Value defaults to `0.500000`.

	!> The `randomization_factor` attribute is deprecated and will be removed in a future version.
<a id="nested--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).

	-> Must be a string containing a sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as "300ms", "-1.5h" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h".
- `delete` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Setting a timeout for a Delete operation is only applicable if changes are saved into state before the destroy operation occurs.

	-> Must be a string containing a sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as "300ms", "-1.5h" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h".
- `read` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Read operations occur during any refresh or planning operation when refresh is enabled.

	-> Must be a string containing a sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as "300ms", "-1.5h" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h".
- `update` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).

	-> Must be a string containing a sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as "300ms", "-1.5h" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h".
