---
# generated by https://github.com/magodo/terraform-plugin-framework-docs
page_title: "azapi_resource Resource - terraform-provider-azapi"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  This resource can manage any Azure Resource Manager resource.
---

# azapi_resource (Resource)

This resource can manage any Azure Resource Manager resource.

## Example Usage

```terraform
terraform {
  required_providers {
    azapi = {
      source = "Azure/azapi"
    }
  }
}

provider "azapi" {
}

provider "azurerm" {
  features {}
}

resource "azurerm_resource_group" "example" {
  name     = "example-rg"
  location = "west europe"
}

resource "azurerm_user_assigned_identity" "example" {
  name                = "example"
  resource_group_name = azurerm_resource_group.example.name
  location            = azurerm_resource_group.example.location
}

// manage a container registry resource
resource "azapi_resource" "example" {
  type      = "Microsoft.ContainerRegistry/registries@2020-11-01-preview"
  name      = "registry1"
  parent_id = azurerm_resource_group.example.id

  location = azurerm_resource_group.example.location
  identity {
    type         = "SystemAssigned, UserAssigned"
    identity_ids = [azurerm_user_assigned_identity.example.id]
  }

  body = {
    sku = {
      name = "Standard"
    }
    properties = {
      adminUserEnabled = true
    }
  }

  tags = {
    "Key" = "Value"
  }

  response_export_values = ["properties.loginServer", "properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status"]
}

// it will output "registry1.azurecr.io"
output "login_server" {
  value = azapi_resource.example.output.properties.loginServer
}

// it will output "disabled"
output "quarantine_policy" {
  value = azapi_resource.example.output.properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status
}
```

## Schema

### Required

- `type` (String) In a format like `<resource-type>@<api-version>`. `<resource-type>` is the Azure resource type, for example, `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts`. `<api-version>` is version of the API used to manage this azure resource.

	-> Ensure this in resource type format: `<resource-type>@<api-version>`.

### Optional

- `body` (Dynamic) A dynamic attribute that contains the request body. Defaults to `{}`.

	~> Use the state value when new value is functionally equivalent to the old and thus no change is required.

	-> Ensure the dynamic value is not a string.
- `create_headers` (Map of String) A mapping of headers to be sent with the create request.
- `create_query_parameters` (Map of List of String) A mapping of query parameters to be sent with the create request.
- `delete_headers` (Map of String) A mapping of headers to be sent with the delete request.
- `delete_query_parameters` (Map of List of String) A mapping of query parameters to be sent with the delete request.
- `identity` (List of Block) The identity of this resource. See [below for nested schema](#nested--identity).
- `ignore_casing` (Boolean) Whether ignore the casing of the property names in the response body Defaults to `false`.
- `ignore_missing_property` (Boolean) Whether ignore not returned properties like credentials in `body` to suppress plan-diff. It's recommend to enable this option when some sensitive properties are not returned in response body, instead of setting them in `lifecycle.ignore_changes` because it will make the sensitive fields unable to update. Defaults to `true`.
- `ignore_null_property` (Boolean) When set to `true`, the provider will ignore properties whose values are `null` in the `body`. These properties will not be included in the request body sent to the API, and the difference will not be shown in the plan output. Defaults to `false`.
- `ignore_other_items_in_list` (List of String) A list of list property paths where items not specified in configuration should be ignored. This is intended for partial list management when combined with `list_unique_id_property` (for example, to avoid perpetual drift from server-side ordering).

	-> Element value must satisfy all validations: string length must be at least 1.
- `list_unique_id_property` (Map of String) A mapping of list property paths to the field name used as a unique identifier when comparing and merging list items. When not set, list items are matched by a `name` property (if present) or by list ordering. To match using multiple fields, specify a comma-separated list of field names (e.g., `"category, categoryGroup"`).
- `location` (String) The location of the Azure resource.

	~> Use the state value when new value is functionally equivalent to the old and thus no change is required.
- `locks` (List of String) A list of ARM resource IDs which are used to avoid create/modify/delete azapi resources at the same time.

	-> Element value must satisfy all validations: string length must be at least 1.
- `name` (String) Specifies the name of the azure resource.

	~> If the value of this attribute changes, Terraform will destroy and recreate the resource.
- `parent_id` (String) The ID of the azure resource in which this resource is created. It supports different kinds of deployment scope for **top level** resources:

  - resource group scope: `parent_id` should be the ID of a resource group, it's recommended to manage a resource group by azurerm_resource_group.
	- management group scope: `parent_id` should be the ID of a management group, it's recommended to manage a management group by azurerm_management_group.
	- extension scope: `parent_id` should be the ID of the resource you're adding the extension to.
	- subscription scope: `parent_id` should be like \x60/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000\x60
	- tenant scope: `parent_id` should be /

  For child level resources, the `parent_id` should be the ID of its parent resource, for example, subnet resource's `parent_id` is the ID of the vnet.

  For type `Microsoft.Resources/resourceGroups`, the `parent_id` could be omitted, it defaults to subscription ID specified in provider or the default subscription (You could check the default subscription by azure cli command: `az account show`).

	~> If the value of this attribute changes, Terraform will destroy and recreate the resource.

	-> Ensure this in resource ID format.
- `read_headers` (Map of String) A mapping of headers to be sent with the read request.
- `read_query_parameters` (Map of List of String) A mapping of query parameters to be sent with the read request.
- `replace_triggers_external_values` (Dynamic) Will trigger a replace of the resource when the value changes and is not `null`. This can be used by practitioners to force a replace of the resource when certain values change, e.g. changing the SKU of a virtual machine based on the value of variables or locals. The value is a `dynamic`, so practitioners can compose the input however they wish. For a "break glass" set the value to `null` to prevent the plan modifier taking effect. 
If you have `null` values that you do want to be tracked as affecting the resource replacement, include these inside an object. 
Advanced use cases are possible and resource replacement can be triggered by values external to the resource, for example when a dependent resource changes.

e.g. to replace a resource when either the SKU or os_type attributes change:

```hcl
resource "azapi_resource" "example" {
  name      = var.name
  type      = "Microsoft.Network/publicIPAddresses@2023-11-01"
  parent_id = "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/example"
  body = {
    properties = {
      sku   = var.sku
      zones = var.zones
    }
  }

  replace_triggers_external_values = [
    var.sku,
    var.zones,
  ]
}
```


	~> If the planned value is different from the state value, Terraform will destroy and recreate the resource unless either the planned or state value is null.
- `replace_triggers_refs` (List of String) A list of paths in the current Terraform configuration. When the values at these paths change, the resource will be replaced.
- `response_export_values` (Dynamic) The attribute can accept either a list or a map.

- **List**: A list of paths that need to be exported from the response body. Setting it to `["*"]` will export the full response body. Here's an example. If it sets to `["properties.loginServer", "properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status"]`, it will set the following HCL object to the computed property output.

	```text
	{
		properties = {
			loginServer = "registry1.azurecr.io"
			policies = {
				quarantinePolicy = {
					status = "disabled"
				}
			}
		}
	}
	```

- **Map**: A map where the key is the name for the result and the value is a JMESPath query string to filter the response. Here's an example. If it sets to `{"login_server": "properties.loginServer", "quarantine_status": "properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status"}`, it will set the following HCL object to the computed property output.

	```text
	{
		"login_server" = "registry1.azurecr.io"
		"quarantine_status" = "disabled"
	}
	```

To learn more about JMESPath, visit [JMESPath](https://jmespath.org/).


	~> Use the state value when new value is functionally equivalent to the old and thus no change is required.
- `retry` (Object) The retry object supports the following attributes: See [below for nested schema](#nested--retry).
- `schema_validation_enabled` (Boolean) Whether enabled the validation on `type` and `body` with embedded schema. Defaults to `true`.
- `sensitive_body` (Dynamic, [Write-only](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/resources/ephemeral#write-only-arguments)) A dynamic attribute that contains the write-only properties of the request body. This will be merge-patched to the body to construct the actual request body.
- `sensitive_body_version` (Map of String) A map where the key is the path to the property in `sensitive_body` and the value is the version of the property. The key is a string in the format of `path.to.property[index].subproperty`, where `index` is the index of the item in an array. When the version is changed, the property will be included in the request body, otherwise it will be omitted from the request body. 
- `tags` (Map of String) A mapping of tags which should be assigned to the Azure resource.

	-> Ensure this is a valid Azure tags map. Maximum of 50 tags can be applied. Each key is up to 512 characters long and each value is up to 256 characters long.
- `timeouts` (Block) See [below for nested schema](#nested--timeouts).
- `update_headers` (Map of String) A mapping of headers to be sent with the update request.
- `update_query_parameters` (Map of List of String) A mapping of query parameters to be sent with the update request.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of the Azure resource.

	~> Once set, the value of this attribute in state will not change.
- `output` (Dynamic) The output HCL object containing the properties specified in `response_export_values`. Here are some examples to use the values.

	```terraform
	// it will output "registry1.azurecr.io"
	output "login_server" {
		value = azapi_resource.example.output.properties.loginServer
	}

	// it will output "disabled"
	output "quarantine_policy" {
		value = azapi_resource.example.output.properties.policies.quarantinePolicy.status
	}
	```


<a id="nested--identity"></a>
### Nested Schema for `identity`

-> Validate the identity block.

Required:

- `type` (String) The Type of Identity which should be used for this azure resource.

	-> Value must be one of: ["SystemAssigned, UserAssigned" "UserAssigned" "SystemAssigned" "None"].

Optional:

- `identity_ids` (List of String) A list of User Managed Identity ID's which should be assigned to the azure resource.

	~> Use the state value when new value is functionally equivalent to the old and thus no change is required.

	-> Element value must satisfy all validations: ensure this in user assigned identity resource ID format.

Read-Only:

- `principal_id` (String) The Principal ID for the Service Principal associated with the Managed Service Identity of this Azure resource.
- `tenant_id` (String) The Tenant ID for the Service Principal associated with the Managed Service Identity of this Azure resource.
<a id="nested--retry"></a>
### Nested Schema for `retry`

Required:

- `error_message_regex` (List of String) A list of regular expressions to match against error messages. If any of the regular expressions match, the request will be retried.

	-> Element value must satisfy all validations: validates that the string compiles as a valid Go regular expression.

	-> All values must be unique.

	-> List must contain at least 1 elements.

Optional:

- `interval_seconds` (Int64) The base number of seconds to wait between retries. Value defaults to `10`.

	-> Value must be at least 1.

	-> Value must be at most 120.
- `max_interval_seconds` (Int64) The maximum number of seconds to wait between retries. Value defaults to `180`.

	-> Value must be at least 1.

	-> Value must be at most 300.
- `multiplier` (Float64) The multiplier to apply to the interval between retries. Value defaults to `1.500000`.

	!> The `multiplier` attribute is deprecated and will be removed in a future version.
- `randomization_factor` (Float64) The randomization factor to apply to the interval between retries. The formula for the randomized interval is: `RetryInterval * (random value in range [1 - RandomizationFactor, 1 + RandomizationFactor])`. Therefore set to zero `0.0` for no randomization. Value defaults to `0.500000`.

	!> The `randomization_factor` attribute is deprecated and will be removed in a future version.
<a id="nested--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).

	-> Must be a string containing a sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as "300ms", "-1.5h" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h".
- `delete` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Setting a timeout for a Delete operation is only applicable if changes are saved into state before the destroy operation occurs.

	-> Must be a string containing a sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as "300ms", "-1.5h" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h".
- `read` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Read operations occur during any refresh or planning operation when refresh is enabled.

	-> Must be a string containing a sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as "300ms", "-1.5h" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h".
- `update` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).

	-> Must be a string containing a sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as "300ms", "-1.5h" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h".

## Import

### Import ID

The [`terraform import` command](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/commands/import) can be used with the id format:

```shell
<resource_id>[?api-version=<api_version>]
```

For example:

```shell
$ terraform import azapi_resource.example "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/example-rg/providers/Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/example-vnet?api-version=2023-11-01"
```

In Terraform v1.5.0 and later, the [`import` block](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/block/import) can be used with the `id` attribute, for example:

```terraform
import {
  to = azapi_resource.example
  id = "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/example-rg/providers/Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/example-vnet?api-version=2023-11-01"
}
```

### Import Identity

In Terraform v1.12.0 and later, the [`import` block](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/block/import) can be used with the `identity` attribute.

```terraform
import {
  to = azapi_resource.example
  identity = {
    id   = "/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/example-rg/providers/Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/example-vnet"
    type = "Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks@2023-11-01"
  }
}
```

Required:

- `id` (String) The Azure resource ID

Optional:

- `type` (String) The Azure resource type
